README.md, before:

# JSON-CSV-TOOL

#### NPM
[![json-csv-tool npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/json-csv-tool?label=json-csv-tool&logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/json-csv-tool)

![](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/json-csv-tool?logo=npm)
[![libraries io](https://img.shields.io/librariesio/release/npm/json-csv-tool)](https://libraries.io/npm/json-csv-tool)
[![snyk](https://img.shields.io/snyk/vulnerabilities/npm/json-csv-tool)](https://snyk.io/vuln/search?q=json-csv-tool&type=npm)
![](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/json-csv-tool) ![](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/json-csv-tool)

#### Github
![](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/rogue-elephant/json-csv-tool)
![](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/rogue-elephant/json-csv-tool)
![](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed-raw/rogue-elephant/json-csv-tool)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/using-typescript-008866?style=flat&logo=typescript)

## Description
Provides functions for converting JSON objects to and from CSVs.

## Try me out
[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io#snapshot/370f4828-27b2-4ffb-bb8e-c79175380463)

# Usage
## Simple Example
``` typescript
import { JsonCsvConverter } from "json-csv-tool";

const dummyJson = {
    firstName: 'Tom',
    lastName: 'Smith',
    age: 32
}
const dummyJson2 = [
    {
        firstName: 'Tom',
        lastName: 'Smith',
        age: 32
    },
    {
        firstName: 'John',
        lastName: 'Locke',
        age: 63
    }
]
const converter = new JsonCsvConverter();
const json1 = converter.convertJsonToCsv(dummyJson).csv;
// firstName,lastName,age
// Tom,Smith,32

const json2 = converter.convertJsonToCsv(dummyJson2).csv;
// firstName,lastName,age
// Tom,Smith,32
// Jon,Locke,63

const blJson = converter.convertJsonToCsv(dummyJson, {blackList: ['firstName', 'Age']}).csv;
// lastName
// Smith

const blJson2 = converter.convertJsonToCsv(dummyJson2, {blackList: ['firstName', 'Age']}).csv;
// lastName
// Smith
// Locke
```

## Deeper example
``` typescript
const deeperPersonJson = [
    {
        id: 1,
        personalInfo: {
            firstName: 'John',
            lastName: 'Smith',
            title: 'Mr'
        },
        jobInfo: {
            department: 'HR',
            title: 'HR Assistant',
        },
        Awards: [
            {
                year: 2016,
                title: 'Best at Everything'
            }
        ]
    },
    {
        id: 2,
        personalInfo: {
            firstName: 'Jane',
            lastName: 'Doe',
            title: 'Mrs'
        },
        jobInfo: {
            department: 'Sales',
            title: 'Sales Executive',
        }
    },
    {
        id: 3,
        personalInfo: {
            firstName: 'John',
            lastName: 'Doe',
            title: 'Mr'
        },
        jobInfo: {
            department: 'R&D',
            title: 'Data Scientist',
        },
        warnings: [
            {
                year: 2016,
                reason: 'Farted in the coffee machine'
            }
        ]
    },
];

converter.convertJsonToCsv(deeperPersonJson).csv;
/*
id,personalInfo_firstName,personalInfo_lastName,personalInfo_title,jobInfo_department,jobInfo_title,Awards_0_year,Awards_0_title,warnings_0_year,warnings_0_reason
1,John,Smith,Mr,HR,HR Assistant,2016,Best at Everything,,
2,Jane,Doe,Mrs,Sales,Sales Executive,,,,
3,John,Doe,Mr,R&D,Data Scientist,,,2016,Farted in the coffee machine
*/
```

## Command Line Util
```
path\to\your\json> json-csv-tool -i .\src\_dummy-json\simple-person.json
    _                                                              _                     _ 
   (_)  ___    ___    _ __             ___   ___  __   __         | |_    ___     ___   | |
   | | / __|  / _ \  | '_ \   _____   / __| / __| \ \ / /  _____  | __|  / _ \   / _ \  | |
   | | \__ \ | (_) | | | | | |_____| | (__  \__ \  \ V /  |_____| | |_  | (_) | | (_) | | |
  _/ | |___/  \___/  |_| |_|          \___| |___/   \_/            \__|  \___/   \___/  |_|
 |__/
Processing .\src\_dummy-json\simple-person.json. CSV Output:
firstName,lastName,title,department,job
John,Smith,Mr,HR,HR Assistant
Jane,Doe,Mrs,HR,HR Assistant
```

## Contributing
- Clone the repo and run `npm install`.
- Create a new feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/your-feature-branch-name`.
- Write a test in the `__tests__` folder for your feature.
- Write the code to get the test passing, running `npm run test`.
- Push your branch up and submit a pull request.

Note: I have configured a launch.json for vscode that should allow for playing around with anything in index.ts and hitting f5 to debug.

## Publishing
- npm version patch
- npm publish

Commit message:

Feature/dot notation (#19)
* changed > to . notation and got .* working as well as collapsing empty rows

* updated w/b list comments

* udpated readme

README.md, after:

# JSON-CSV-TOOL

#### NPM
[![json-csv-tool npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/json-csv-tool?label=json-csv-tool&logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/json-csv-tool)

![](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/json-csv-tool?logo=npm)
[![libraries io](https://img.shields.io/librariesio/release/npm/json-csv-tool)](https://libraries.io/npm/json-csv-tool)
[![snyk](https://img.shields.io/snyk/vulnerabilities/npm/json-csv-tool)](https://snyk.io/vuln/search?q=json-csv-tool&type=npm)
![](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/json-csv-tool) ![](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/json-csv-tool)

#### Github
![](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/rogue-elephant/json-csv-tool)
![](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/rogue-elephant/json-csv-tool)
![](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed-raw/rogue-elephant/json-csv-tool)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/using-typescript-008866?style=flat&logo=typescript)

## Description
Provides functions for converting JSON objects to and from CSVs.

## Try me out
[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io#snapshot/370f4828-27b2-4ffb-bb8e-c79175380463)

# Usage
## Simple Example
``` typescript
import { JsonCsvConverter } from "json-csv-tool";

const dummyJson = {
    firstName: 'Tom',
    lastName: 'Smith',
    age: 32
}
const dummyJson2 = [
    {
        firstName: 'Tom',
        lastName: 'Smith',
        age: 32
    },
    {
        firstName: 'John',
        lastName: 'Locke',
        age: 63
    }
]
const converter = new JsonCsvConverter();
const json1 = converter.convertJsonToCsv(dummyJson).csv;
// firstName,lastName,age
// Tom,Smith,32

const json2 = converter.convertJsonToCsv(dummyJson2).csv;
// firstName,lastName,age
// Tom,Smith,32
// Jon,Locke,63

const blJson = converter.convertJsonToCsv(dummyJson, {blackList: ['firstName', 'Age']}).csv;
// lastName
// Smith

const blJson2 = converter.convertJsonToCsv(dummyJson2, {blackList: ['firstName', 'Age']}).csv;
// lastName
// Smith
// Locke
```

## Deeper example
``` typescript
const deeperPersonJson = [
    {
        id: 1,
        personalInfo: {
            firstName: 'John',
            lastName: 'Smith',
            title: 'Mr'
        },
        jobInfo: {
            department: 'HR',
            title: 'HR Assistant',
        },
        Awards: [
            {
                year: 2016,
                title: 'Best at Everything'
            }
        ]
    },
    {
        id: 2,
        personalInfo: {
            firstName: 'Jane',
            lastName: 'Doe',
            title: 'Mrs'
        },
        jobInfo: {
            department: 'Sales',
            title: 'Sales Executive',
        }
    },
    {
        id: 3,
        personalInfo: {
            firstName: 'John',
            lastName: 'Doe',
            title: 'Mr'
        },
        jobInfo: {
            department: 'R&D',
            title: 'Data Scientist',
        },
        warnings: [
            {
                year: 2016,
                reason: 'Farted in the coffee machine'
            }
        ]
    },
];

converter.convertJsonToCsv(deeperPersonJson).csv;
/*
id,personalInfo_firstName,personalInfo_lastName,personalInfo_title,jobInfo_department,jobInfo_title,Awards_0_year,Awards_0_title,warnings_0_year,warnings_0_reason
1,John,Smith,Mr,HR,HR Assistant,2016,Best at Everything,,
2,Jane,Doe,Mrs,Sales,Sales Executive,,,,
3,John,Doe,Mr,R&D,Data Scientist,,,2016,Farted in the coffee machine
*/
```

## Dot notation
You can also specify specifc fields to get based on dot notation, such as:
``` typescript
new JsonCsvConverter().convertJsonToCsv(apiJson, {whiteList: ['prefs.backgroundImageScaled.url']});
```

Or 
``` typescript
new JsonCsvConverter().convertJsonToCsv(apiJson, {whiteList: ['name', 'cards.*']});
```

## Contributing
- Clone the repo and run `npm install`.
- Create a new feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/your-feature-branch-name`.
- Write a test in the `__tests__` folder for your feature.
- Write the code to get the test passing, running `npm run test`.
- Push your branch up and submit a pull request.

Note: I have configured a launch.json for vscode that should allow for playing around with anything in index.ts and hitting f5 to debug.

## Publishing
- npm version patch
- npm publish
